Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about the need of arrays.
So why do we need an array? Let us
consider the situation where we need to get 10 students age
and store it for some purpose. Since age is an
integer type, we can store it like this, declaring 10 integer
variables
Now what if there are 20 students whose age we
need to get? Then we should declare 20 integer
variables.
But this way it is very difficult to create variables,
manipulate them and to keep track of them
and we have a great solution to this problem.
Use arrays. So what is an array? An array is a
collection of variables of the same data type like the
collection of integers or collection of characters or collection of
floating point numbers etc.
But we can't group different data types in an array
like we cannot have integers and characters and float together
in the same collection.
So an array is sometimes called as Homogeneous data type.
So coming back to our issue, we had to get
age of 10 students
So instead of creating 10 integer variables we can
just create an integer array of size 10
array elements are stored in sequential memory locations here
Since the array is of integer type, first element
will take four bytes from 1024 to 1027
the second element will take four bytes from 1028 to 1031 and
so on and the array index starts from 0 to 9
and not from 1 to 10
So to access first student age, we can directly use
index zero that is age[0]
and to access fifth student age we can use index
four that is age[4] so generally to
get nth element use index n-1 and an
array of size n will have elements from index 0 to n-1
Now we can relate an apartment to an array.
Say house is a datatype then Apartment is an array of houses
So this apartment has three houses
house[0] is the first house, house[1]
is the second house and house[2] is the
third house and so on.
So that's all and thank you for watching this video